
Hi there, and welcome to the How to Python Starter Kit!,I am excited to walk you through this 
beginner-friendly project that will help you get started with Python and set up everything you need to begin your coding journey.
This kit is designed to save you time, guide you step by step, and teach you some important programming concepts along the way.

Let’s take a closer look at the files included in this kit. Here’s a quick overview:

1. The Install_Python_Windows.bat file will install the latest version of python on your computer,
   	Whether you’re using Windows, macOS, or Linux, we’ve got you covered. Double click on the script to run 
   	and follow the prompts in the terminal window. 


2. Install_VisualStudioCode.py
	now that you have Python installed on your computer, we are going to install Visual Studio Code.
	Open a new Terminal on your computer and navigate to the folder that contains the Install_Visual_Studio_Code.py file.
	To run any python script in the terminal start by typing Python then a single space followed by your filename .py 
	Congradulations, you have succesfully run your first python code.  

3. Now lets open Visual Studio Code. Once you have the application opened, we can navigate to File, then Open File and open 
	the How_To_Python project. From here we can see some of the sample files i've included. 


3. main_script.py and testing_script.py
   	These files contain example Python scripts for you to explore. main_script.py introduces basic functionality, while testing_script.py 
   	lets you experiment and try new things.

4. Welcome_Video.py
   	This file runs a welcome video, like the one you’re watching now, to make learning interactive and engaging.

5. Documentation Files:  I have included multiple PDF files to help you navigate the various shortcuts in the software you will be using
   	Command_Line_Shortcut_Keys.pdf 
     	A handy reference for terminal and command-line shortcuts.
   	VSCode_Shortcut_Keys.pdf
     	A guide to navigating Visual Studio Code efficiently.
    	PowerShell_Shortcut_Keys.pdf
     	Useful shortcuts for Windows PowerShell users.

6. New_To_Python.md  
   	This file explains common folders used in Python projects and how to structure your code.

7. src Folder:  
   	This is where you’ll find multimedia assets, including videos, audio files, and button icons used in the project.


Next, let’s talk about the installation script. This script performs three main tasks:

1. Step 1: Install Python 
   The script automatically downloads and installs the latest version of Python, making sure you’re ready to run any Python code.

2. Step 2: Install Visual Studio Code 
   It downloads and installs VS Code, the editor we’ll use for all our programming tasks.

3. Step 3: Set Up Your Environment  
   Finally, the script verifies that everything is set up correctly and gives you the green light to start coding.

Now, let’s run the installation script together. Here’s what you need to do:

1. Open your terminal or PowerShell.
2. Navigate to the folder where you’ve saved the Starter Kit files.
3. Run the command:  
   Install_Python_Windows.bat  # For Windows
   ./Install_Python_Mac.sh     # For macOS
   ./Install_Python_Linux.bash # For Linux

The script will begin downloading Python and Visual Studio Code. You’ll see a progress bar as each step completes.

Once the setup is complete, let’s try running some example scripts included in the kit.

- Open main_script.py in VS Code. Click on the green play button in the top-right corner to run the script. This script prints a welcome message to the console.
- Next, open testing_script.py. This script lets you experiment with Python code. Feel free to edit it and see what happens!

Congratulations! You’ve successfully set up your Python environment. From here, I recommend reading through the New_To_Python.md file,
which explains how to organize your projects and write your first Python program.

If you have any questions or run into issues, don’t hesitate to reach out. I’ve included my contact information in the documentation, 
and I’m happy to help.

Thank you for watching this introduction to the How to Python Starter Kit. I hope you enjoy learning Python as much as I do. Let’s get coding!
